Project Requirements: High-Performance GraphQL API
1. Project Vision
The goal is to architect and build a scalable, observable, and performant backend system. This system will serve as the data backbone for the application, exposing a comprehensive GraphQL API built on an Apollo Server. Key features include automated schema generation from the database structure, an intelligent caching layer using Redis to minimize database load, efficient intra-request batching with DataLoader, and robust performance monitoring with Prometheus and Grafana.

2. System Architecture Overview
The backend will follow a modern, decoupled architecture. All client applications will communicate with the central Apollo GraphQL Server. The server will process requests by fetching data from a PostgreSQL database via the Prisma ORM. To optimize performance, the system will use two layers of optimization: DataLoader for batching queries within a single API call and Redis for caching the results of entire queries between API calls. Performance metrics will be continuously exported to a Prometheus instance for monitoring and visualization in Grafana.

3. Functional Requirements (FR)
These requirements define what the system must do.

FR1: GraphQL API Foundation
Description: The core of the backend will be a Node.js server running Apollo to get the calls from the supabase graphql enpoint. Supabase is serving the data, but we are requesting the data using the grapql calls from our local server. 

Acceptance Criteria:

An Apollo Server 5 is successfully running, likely on an Express.js or Fastify framework.

The server can connect to the PostgreSQL database using the Prisma Client.

A basic "hello world" GraphQL query can be executed successfully through the API.

run the server with: NODE_ENV=development npx ts-node src/server.ts

FR2: Automated Schema & Resolver Generation
Description: To ensure the API stays perfectly in sync with the database and to accelerate development, the GraphQL schema (queries, mutations, and types) will be automatically generated from the provided Prisma schema.

Technology: Utilize a library like @pothos/plugin-prisma Pothos is a code-first GraphQL schema builder for TypeScript that puts a strong emphasis on type safety. Its Prisma plugin (@pothos/plugin-prisma) is incredibly powerful and makes it easy to expose your Prisma models in your GraphQL API securely and efficiently.

Acceptance Criteria:

All models in the schema.prisma file are automatically exposed as GraphQL types.

Standard CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) queries and mutations are generated for each model.

Relational queries are correctly generated, allowing for nested data fetching (e.g., querying a Profile and including their activities).

The generated schema is browsable via the Apollo Server Studio (or GraphQL Playground) in a development environment.

FR3: N+1 Query Problem Mitigation with DataLoader
Description: Implement the DataLoader pattern to batch and cache data fetching operations within the scope of a single GraphQL request. This will prevent the "N+1 query problem" when resolving nested relationships, significantly reducing the number of queries sent to the database per request.

Acceptance Criteria:

A new DataLoader instance is created for every incoming HTTP request to prevent data leakage between users.

DataLoaders are implemented for frequently accessed, related models (e.g., ProfileLoader, ChallengeLoader, TeamLoader).

When a nested query is executed (e.g., fetching 10 challenges and their creators), database logs confirm that only one batched query is made to fetch the related creators, not 10 individual queries.

FR4: Performance Caching with Redis
Description: Implement an inter-request caching layer to store the results of expensive or frequently requested queries, reducing redundant database work and improving API response times.

Acceptance Criteria:

The server successfully connects to a Redis instance.

A caching strategy (e.g., using Apollo Server's response caching plugins) is implemented for specific, high-traffic GraphQL queries.

Cache Invalidation: The cache for a specific object is automatically cleared (purged) when a mutation updates or deletes that object.

A default TTL (Time-To-Live) is set for cached data to ensure eventual consistency.

FR5: Performance Monitoring & Observability
Description: To maintain high performance and quickly diagnose issues, the API must be instrumented to collect and expose detailed performance metrics.

Acceptance Criteria:

A /metrics endpoint is exposed by the server, serving data in a Prometheus-compatible format.

The following key metrics are tracked:

GraphQL Resolver Duration: A histogram metric (graphql_resolver_execution_time_seconds) that measures the execution time for each resolver.

API Request Rate: A counter metric (http_requests_total) for all incoming API requests.

Cache Performance: Counter metrics for cache_hits_total and cache_misses_total to measure the effectiveness of the Redis cache.

These metrics can be successfully scraped by a Prometheus server.

4. Non-Functional Requirements (NFR)
These requirements define how well the system must operate.

NFR1: Security
Authentication & Authorization: The GraphQL API must be protected. A mechanism (e.g., JSON Web Tokens - JWT) must be in place to identify the user making the request and enforce data access rules.

Production Hardening: GraphQL Introspection and other development tools (like Apollo Server Studio) must be disabled in the production environment.

NFR2: Performance
API Latency: For cached read operations, the 95th percentile (P95) response time should be under 100ms. For uncached read operations, P95 should be under 300ms.

Database Load: The combination of DataLoader and Redis caching should aim to reduce the number of SELECT queries to the database by at least 75% for common read patterns compared to a naive implementation.

NFR3: Code Quality & Maintainability
Language: The entire backend codebase must be written in TypeScript to ensure type safety.
